#Seed Phrase Recovery: A Necessary Risk or a Slippery Slope for Ledger?
The world of Ledger devices has recently come under scrutiny, with concerns growing over the safety of their devices. A new firmware update from Ledger has added the option for users to pay a monthly fee to recover lost or forgotten seed phrases, which has caused unease within the crypto community. The fact that the code for this service is not open-sourced has compounded these concerns.
The service allows users to back up their seed recovery phrase by splitting and encrypting it among third parties. At first thought, this is a great idea, considering many people find it hard to keep up with even their car keys. But the real issue comes from researchers and advisors who argue this could leave the key vulnerable because it undermines the primary security function of a hardware wallet. This update provides an additional attack layer for hackers and a backdoor for governments and/or Ledger. In defense of the service, Ledger suggested that this backup option will be popular with future customers due to the fear of losing access to assets with a misplaced recovery phrase.
The Ledger twitted earlier in a now-deleted tweet that "Technically speaking it is and always has been possible to write firmware that facilitates key extraction. You have always trusted Ledger not to deploy such firmware whether you knew it or not,". To manage the situation, Ledger's Chief Technology Officer, Charles Guillemet, took to Twitter. He attempted to downplay the impact of the original tweets and clarify Ledger's stance on the matter. However, this did little for its users.
Additionally, a company spokesperson reached out to CoinDesk, affirming that Ledger has neither the ability nor the intent to extract user keys. They further stressed that any actions related to keys require explicit approval from the user. The controversial tweets were soon deleted as part of the damage control effort.
The incident with Ledger is a reminder of how complex digital asset security is. While Ledger has made attempts to reassure users of their commitment to security, the crypto community won't accept words alone. Popular web3 advisor Vanessa Harris provided steps for Ledger to regain trust within the community:

These steps prove the importance of trust, transparency, and communication when dealing with digital assets. It also could provide a rough guideline for other wallets moving forward, specifically a separate wallet for users who would like this new feature. After all, the cornerstone of cryptocurrency is the power it gives to individuals to control their own security.
